---
title: Convert MHTML to OFT via .NET 
weight: 3090
url: /net/conversion/mhtml-to-oft/ 
description: Try our On-Premise APIs with your message on .NET Framework, .NET Core, and Xamarin Platforms.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert MHTML to OFT via C#" h2=".NET API for MHTML to OFT conversion without needing OutlookВ® or ThunderbirdВ®." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-net.png" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="OFT" pfName="Aspose.Email" subTitlepfName="for .NET" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="HTML" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="MHTML" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Email " subTitlepfName="for .NET" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-net.png" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-email" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/net" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/net" nugetLink="https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.email" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="" learnAsLink="" apiReference="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2=".NET API for MHTML to OFT conversion without needing Outlook" %}}

 In order to convert MHTML to OFT, weвЂ™ll use
 [Aspose.Email for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/email/net) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use document manipulation and conversion API for C# platform. Open
 [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.email) 
 package manager, search for
 **Aspose.Email** 
 and install. You may also use the following command from the Package Manager Console.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Aspose.Email" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

PM> Install-Package Aspose.Email

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert MHTML to OFT via C#" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 The
 [aspose.email.dll](https://downloads.aspose.com/email/net) 
 makes it easy for the developers to load & convert MHTML files to OFT in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

+  Load MHTML file with Aspose.Email.MailMessage.Load.
+  Call the Save method.
+  Pass the output file path with OFT file extension.
+  OFT file will be saved at the specified path.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email for .NET is supported on all major operating systems. Just make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Load MHTML file with Aspose.Email.MailMessage.Load.
-  Call the Save method.
-  Pass the output file path with OFT file extension.
-  OFT file will be saved at the specified path.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Command" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
// load the MHTML file to be converted
var message = Aspose.Email.MailMessage.Load("My File.mhtml"); 
// save MHTML as a OFT 
message.Save("Saved File.oft", Aspose.Email.SaveOptions.DefaultOft);  

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="Free App to Convert MHTML to OFT" sectionDescription="Check our live demos for [MHTML to OFT conversion](https://products.aspose.app/email/conversion/mhtml-to-oft) with following benefits." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download or setup anything." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your MHTML file and hit the \"Convert\" button." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will instantly get the download link for resultant OFT file." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert MHTML to OFT Using C#" %}}

 Aspose.Email is a Microsoft Outlook and Thunderbird formats parsing solution. One can easily create, manipulate, convert email and storage formats such as MSG, EMLX, EML and MHT. Handling of email attachments, customization of message headers and implementation of different network protocols like POP3, IMAP & SMTP to send & receive emails is much easier. Its a standalone API and does not require Microsoft Outlook or any other software installation. вЂЋ



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="MHTML" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/web/mhtml/" >}}
Files with MHTML extension represent a web page archive format that can be created by a number of different applications. The format is known as archive format because it saves the web HTML code and associated resources in a single file. These resources include anything linked to the webpage such as images, applets, animations, audio files and so on. MHTML files can be opened in a variety of applications such as Internet Explorer and Microsoft Word. Microsoft Windows uses MHTML file format for recording scenarios of problems observed during the usage of any application on Windows that raises issues. The MHTML file format encodes the page contents similar to specifications defined in message/rfc822 which is plain text email related specifications. The actual specifications of the format are as detailed by RFC 2557.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="oft" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/email/oft/" >}}
Files with .OFT extension represent message template files that are created using Microsoft Outlook. The pre-formatted layout set for message templates is then used for sending out emails with common information to save time. Such files can be generated by creating a new email, adding necessary information and then using the Save As Office Template (*.oft) dropdown from Microsoft Outlook. Users can open the OFT files by double clicking on it and it will open in associated application on that particular system.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}