---
title: Convert MHTML to OST via Java 
weight: 640
url: /java/conversion/mhtml-to-ost/ 
description: Try our On-Premise APIs for your message conversion on Java Runtime Environment for JSP/JSF Application and Desktop Applications.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert MHTML to OST in Java" h2="Native MHTML to OST conversion using Aspose.Email for Java library, without needing any additional software." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-java.png" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="OST" pfName="Aspose.Email" subTitlepfName="for Java" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="DOCX" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="MHTML" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Email " subTitlepfName="for Java" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-java.png" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-email" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" nugetLink="" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="https://downloads.aspose.com/email/java" learnAsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" apiReference="" mavenRepoLink="https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert MHTML to OST Using Java" %}}

 In order to render MHTML to OST, we’ll use
 [Aspose.Email for Java](https://products.aspose.com/email/java) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use conversion API for Java platform. You can download its latest version directly from
 [Maven](https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email) 
 and install it within your Maven-based project by adding the following configurations to the pom.xml.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Repository" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

<repository>
<id>AsposeJavaAPI</id>
<name>Aspose Java API</name>
<url>https://repository.aspose.com/repo/</url>
</repository>

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Dependency" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs
<dependency>
<groupId>com.aspose</groupId>
<artifactId>aspose-email</artifactId>
<version>version of aspose-email API</version>
<classifier>jdk17</classifier>
</dependency>

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert MHTML to OST via Java" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email API makes it easy for the developers to convert MHTML file to OST in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

+  Load MHTML file with Aspose.Email for Java MailMessage.load.
+  Call the save() method.
+  Pass the output file path with (OST) file extension.
+  Open OST file in compatible program.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email for Java supports on all major platforms and Operating Systems. Please make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with Java Runtime Environment for JSP/JSF Application and Desktop Applications.
-  Get latest version of Aspose.Email for Java directly from
 [Maven](https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email)  .

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Convert MHTML to OST - Java‎" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
// load the MHTML file to be converted
MailMessage message = MailMessage.load("sourceFile.mhtml"); 
// save MHTML as a OST 
message.save("Saved File.ost", SaveOptions.DefaultOst);    

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="MHTML to OST Conversion Live Demos" sectionDescription="[Convert MHTML to OST](https://products.aspose.app/email/conversion/mhtml-to-ost) right now by visiting our Live Demos website.The live demo has the following benefits" >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download Aspose API." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your MHTML file, it will be converted instantly to OST." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will get the download link." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="About Aspose.Email for Java API" %}}

 Aspose.Email is a Microsoft Outlook and Thunderbird formats parsing solution. One can easily create, manipulate, convert email and storage formats such as MSG, EMLX, EML and MHT. Handling of email attachments, customization of message headers and implementation of different network protocols like POP3, IMAP & SMTP to send & receive emails is much easier. Its a standalone API and does not require Microsoft Outlook or any other software installation. ‎



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="MHTML" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/web/mhtml/" >}}

Files with MHTML extension represent a web page archive format that can be created by a number of different applications. The format is known as archive format because it saves the web HTML code and associated resources in a single file. These resources include anything linked to the webpage such as images, applets, animations, audio files and so on. MHTML files can be opened in a variety of applications such as Internet Explorer and Microsoft Word. Microsoft Windows uses MHTML file format for recording scenarios of problems observed during the usage of any application on Windows that raises issues. The MHTML file format encodes the page contents similar to specifications defined in message/rfc822 which is plain text email related specifications. The actual specifications of the format are as detailed by RFC 2557.
Read More

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="OST" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/email/ost/" >}}

OST or Offline Storage Files represent user's mailbox data in offline mode on local machine upon registration with Exchange Server using Microsoft Outlook. It is automatically created on the first use of Microsoft Outlook upon connectivity with server. Once the file is created, the data is synchronized with the email server so that it is available offline as well in case of disconnectivity from email server. OST files can user mailbox items such as emails, contacts, calendar information, notes, tasks and other similar data. Users can create emails and other data items in OST file even in the absence of connection to the server, but these will not be synchronized with the server. Once the connection is established, the local file is synchronized with the server again so that both the server and the local copy are at the same level of information.
Read More

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}