---
title: Convert OST to HTML via Java 
weight: 2070
url: /java/conversion/ost-to-html/ 
description: Try our On-Premise APIs for your message conversion on Java Runtime Environment for JSP/JSF Application and Desktop Applications.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert OST to HTML in Java" h2="Native OST to HTML conversion using Aspose.Email for Java library, without needing any additional software." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-java.png" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="HTML" pfName="Aspose.Email" subTitlepfName="for Java" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="DOCX" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="OST" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Email " subTitlepfName="for Java" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-java.png" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-email" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" nugetLink="" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="https://downloads.aspose.com/email/java" learnAsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" apiReference="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert OST to HTML Using Java" %}}

 In order to render OST to HTML, weвЂ™ll use
 [Aspose.Email for Java](https://products.aspose.com/email/java) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use conversion API for Java platform. You can download its latest version directly from
 [Maven](https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email) 
 and install it within your Maven-based project by adding the following configurations to the pom.xml.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Repository" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

<repository>
<id>AsposeJavaAPI</id>
<name>Aspose Java API</name>
<url>https://repository.aspose.com/repo/</url>
</repository>

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Dependency" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs
<dependency>
<groupId>com.aspose</groupId>
<artifactId>aspose-email</artifactId>
<version>version of aspose-email API</version>
<classifier>jdk17</classifier>
</dependency>

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert OST to HTML via Java" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email API makes it easy for the developers to convert OST file to HTML in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

+  Load OST file with PersonalStorage.fromFile.
+  Call the saveAs() method having two parameters.
+  Output HTML file and FileFormat.Ost as parameters.
+  Open HTML file in compatible program.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email for Java supports on all major platforms and Operating Systems. Please make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with Java Runtime Environment for JSP/JSF Application and Desktop Applications.
-  Get latest version of Aspose.Email for Java directly from
 [Maven](https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email)  .

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Convert OST to HTML - JavaвЂЋ" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
PersonalStorage sFile = PersonalStorage.fromFile("sourceFile.ost");

sFile.saveAs("outputFile.html", FileFormat.Html);    

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="OST to HTML Conversion Live Demos" sectionDescription="[Convert OST to HTML](https://products.aspose.app/email/conversion/ost-to-html) right now by visiting our Live Demos website.The live demo has the following benefits" >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download Aspose API." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your OST file, it will be converted instantly to HTML." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will get the download link." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="About Aspose.Email for Java API" %}}

 Aspose.Email is a Microsoft Outlook and Thunderbird formats parsing solution. One can easily create, manipulate, convert email and storage formats such as MSG, EMLX, EML and MHT. Handling of email attachments, customization of message headers and implementation of different network protocols like POP3, IMAP & SMTP to send & receive emails is much easier. Its a standalone API and does not require Microsoft Outlook or any other software installation. вЂЋ



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="OST" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/email/ost/" >}}

OST or Offline Storage Files represent user's mailbox data in offline mode on local machine upon registration with Exchange Server using Microsoft Outlook. It is automatically created on the first use of Microsoft Outlook upon connectivity with server. Once the file is created, the data is synchronized with the email server so that it is available offline as well in case of disconnectivity from email server. OST files can user mailbox items such as emails, contacts, calendar information, notes, tasks and other similar data. Users can create emails and other data items in OST file even in the absence of connection to the server, but these will not be synchronized with the server. Once the connection is established, the local file is synchronized with the server again so that both the server and the local copy are at the same level of information.
Read More

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="HTML" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/web/html/" >}}

HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language) is the extension for web pages created for display in browsers. Known as language of the web, HTML has evolved with requirements of new information requirements to be displayed as part of web pages. The latest variant is known as HTML 5 that gives a lot of flexibility for working with the language. HTML pages are either received from server, where these are hosted, or can be loaded from local system as well. Each HTML page is made up of HTML elements such as forms, text, images, animations, links, etc. These elements are represented by tags such as img, a, p and several others where each tag has start and end. It can also embed applications written in scripting languages such as JavaScript and Style Sheets (CSS) for overall layout representation.
Read More

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}