---
title: Convert VCF to ICS via Java 
weight: 2280
url: /java/conversion/vcf-to-ics/ 
description: Try our On-Premise APIs for your message conversion on Java Runtime Environment for JSP/JSF Application and Desktop Applications.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert VCF to ICS in Java" h2="Native VCF to ICS conversion using Aspose.Email for Java library, without needing any additional software." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-java.png" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="ICS" pfName="Aspose.Email" subTitlepfName="for Java" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="DOCX" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="VCF" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Email " subTitlepfName="for Java" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/email/272x272/aspose_email-for-java.png" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-email" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/email/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" nugetLink="" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="https://downloads.aspose.com/email/java" learnAsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/email/java" apiReference="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert VCF to ICS Using Java" %}}

 In order to render VCF to ICS, weвЂ™ll use
 [Aspose.Email for Java](https://products.aspose.com/email/java) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use conversion API for Java platform. You can download its latest version directly from
 [Maven](https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email) 
 and install it within your Maven-based project by adding the following configurations to the pom.xml.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Repository" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

<repository>
<id>AsposeJavaAPI</id>
<name>Aspose Java API</name>
<url>https://repository.aspose.com/repo/</url>
</repository>

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Dependency" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs
<dependency>
<groupId>com.aspose</groupId>
<artifactId>aspose-email</artifactId>
<version>version of aspose-email API</version>
<classifier>jdk17</classifier>
</dependency>

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert VCF to ICS via Java" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email API makes it easy for the developers to convert VCF file to ICS in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

+  Load VCF file with Aspose.Email for Java MailMessage.load.
+  Call the save() method.
+  Pass the output file path with (ICS) file extension.
+  Open ICS file in compatible program.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Email for Java supports on all major platforms and Operating Systems. Please make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with Java Runtime Environment for JSP/JSF Application and Desktop Applications.
-  Get latest version of Aspose.Email for Java directly from
 [Maven](https://repository.aspose.com/webapp/#/artifacts/browse/tree/General/repo/com/aspose/aspose-email)  .

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Convert VCF to ICS - JavaвЂЋ" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
// load the VCF file to be converted
MailMessage message = MailMessage.load("sourceFile.vcf"); 
// save VCF as a ICS 
message.save("Saved File.ics", SaveOptions.DefaultIcs);    

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="VCF to ICS Conversion Live Demos" sectionDescription="[Convert VCF to ICS](https://products.aspose.app/email/conversion/vcf-to-ics) right now by visiting our Live Demos website.The live demo has the following benefits" >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download Aspose API." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your VCF file, it will be converted instantly to ICS." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will get the download link." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="About Aspose.Email for Java API" %}}

 Aspose.Email is a Microsoft Outlook and Thunderbird formats parsing solution. One can easily create, manipulate, convert email and storage formats such as MSG, EMLX, EML and MHT. Handling of email attachments, customization of message headers and implementation of different network protocols like POP3, IMAP & SMTP to send & receive emails is much easier. Its a standalone API and does not require Microsoft Outlook or any other software installation. вЂЋ



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="VCF" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/email/vcf/" >}}

VCF (Virtual Card Format) or vCard is a digital file format for storing contact information. The format is widely used for data interchange among popular information exchange applications. Most operating systems such as Windows and MacOS come with default applications to create and open these files. A single VCF file can contain contact information for one or multiple contacts. A VCF file usually contains information such as contact's name, address, phone number, email, birthday, photographs and audio in addition to a number of other fields. Being supported by email clients and services, there is no loss of data during the transfer of contacts via using the vCard format. The media type for VCF file format is text/vcard.
Read More

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="ICS" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/email/ics/" >}}

The Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object Specification (iCalendar) is an internet standard(RFC 2445) for exchanging and deploying the calendaring events and scheduling.  The iCalendar format is interoperable, thereby ensuring the exchange of calendar information among the users having different email applications. iCalendar formats the input data as a Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) and facilitates the object exchanged via different transport protocols. These transport protocols can be SMTP, HTTP, point-to-point asynchronous communication, and physical media based-network transport. iCalendar allows users to share events, date/time dependent tasks, and free/busy information via emails to other users who can respond back. iCalendar files store using suffixes  ".ics" ".iCalendar" or ".ifb" with a MIME type of "text/calendar".
Read More

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}